content-visibility:hidden-matchable -> hidden=until-found (#212)
WICG/display-locking: explainers/hidden-content-explainer.md

   to reveal it.

2. The `beforematch` event is fired before the browser removes the
   `hidden=until-found` attribute to allow the page to change other state in
   conjunction with the removal of the `hidden` attribute and the browser
   scrolling.

The browser should fire `beforematch` on the `hidden=until-found` element and
then remove the `hidden=until-found` attribute at render timing for these cases:
* There is a new find-in-page
  [active match](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/interaction.html#fip-matches)
  which is located inside an element with the `hidden=until-found` attribute.
* There is a [scroll-to-text](https://github.com/WICG/ScrollToTextFragment)
  navigation (`example.com/#:~:text=foo`), where the target text is located
  inside a `hidden=until-found` element.
* There is an element fragment navigation or change (`example.com/#foo`),
  where the target is the element whose id matches the id in the fragment.
* [`window.find`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/find)
  found a text match located inside a `hidden=until-found`
  element. We aren't certain if `window.find` will be supported for sure

>   yet, see the detailed section about it below.

Author: Ok, I said that we won't support it until window.find get specced. How does that sound?

If the matching text spans multiple `hidden=until-found` ancestors, only the
first `hidden=until-found` will be removed and the `beforematch` event will only
be fired on the first one.

If there are multiple `hidden=until-found` elements in the flat tree ancestor
chain of the target element to reveal, then all of them will be removed and all
of them will receive the `beforematch` event.

> Note that the proposal for `hidden=until-found` and `beforematch` is still in

Author: removed

.title::before {
  content: '⬇️ ';
}

> [hidden=until-found] > .title::before {

Author: yeah it was very broken, i fixed it

browser automatically expands the section by removing the `hidden` attribute.

Note that the net effect of this is that the user is able to find matches in
collapsed sections which are automatically expanded.

The same effect occurs when scroll-to-text navigation targets text in a hidden
section. For instance, navigating to `example.com/page.html#:~:text=lorem` would
make the browser expand the introduction section as a result of the
scroll-to-text fragment navigation match.

One possible real-world application of this is the collapsed sections on mobile
wikipedia pages. find-in-page and scroll-to-text currently can't find text
inside of the collapsed sections, but with `hidden=until-found` they could be
searchable and automatically expanded.

Using this feature is a good optimization for low power mobile devices that
don't want to render all of the content in the page but still making it
accessible to features such as find-in-page. Making long articles with collapsed
sections accessible to find-in-page will improve the user experience.

## The `beforematch` event and other use cases

The previous example doesn't need to use the proposed `beforematch` event

> because all other visual state in the example is controlled with HTML attribute

Reviewer: I suspect we'll have to update this.

There are sibling combinators, but they only match the second sibling, so I don't know if you can do this with css alone without some awkward positioning

Author: Are you saying that we should add a new example that actually uses `beforematch`?

Author: Now that I've actually tried it I see.
I updated it, and now it also uses beforematch.

I also removed the section which says that the example doesn't use beforematch and justifies why we need beforematch.

selectors in CSS. However, we should still notify the page that something is
being revealed via the `beforematch` event. More complex use cases include
carousels and tabs, where the revealing of one section means that the page must
also hide another corresponding section, perhaps by applying the
`hidden=until-found` attribute, in a `beforematch` event handler.

## Comparison to the `<details>` element

The [auto-expanding `<details>`

> feature](https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/6466) works very similarly to this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
element](https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/6466) works very similarly to this
```

feature. This feature empowers developers to build their own auto-expandable
details elements and more by exposing the primitive features used to make the
auto-expandable `<details>` element.

## Privacy concerns

The `beforematch` event as well as the DOM modifications made by the browser
when it removes the `hidden` attribute expose additional information to the page
about find-in-page and ScrollToTextFragment.

For find-in-page, this new information no more exploitable than the existing
`scroll` events. It is already possible to snoop on find-in-page by creating a
scrollable area containing every next character the user could type into
find-in-page, listening to scroll events to see which caracter the user typed
in, then prepending the new character to all of the next possible search terms.
If the scrollable area is 1px tall or otherwise very small or hard to see, then
the user may not be able to tell it is happening. This is demonstrated in
[search-incremental.html](/resources/find-in-page/search-incremental.html).

> In order to mitigate find-in-page snooping from both `scroll` events and

Reviewer: I personally don't like the word "snooping" in this context, but it's up to you :)

Reviewer: Sounds nefarious and informal. But it's fine, snooping it is!

and removing the `hidden` attribute on the target text does not reveal more
information than is already revealed by the exising scrolling and `:target`
pseudo selector that ScrollToTextFragment applies.

## Responses to DOM and style changes in the `beforematch` event handler

If the `beforematch` event handler
[collapses](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#range-collapsed) the DOM range of the
target text or changes the style to remove the target text from rendering, the
browser will not scroll to the target text.

## Usage of `content-visibility`

`hidden=until-found` will be implemented as a presentational style of
`content-visibility:hidden` as opposed to the existing `hidden` attribute which
applies a presentational style of `display:none`. This will improve the
performance of searching the content inside the `hidden=until-found` subtree
because searching for text in these areas requires computing style and layout.
`content-visibility` saves this computed style and layout instead of
`display:none` which deletes them, which means that once the first run of
find-in-page or ScrollToTextFragment will compute these values, and subsequent

> runs can reuse the saved style and layout.

Reviewer: Would this be a good section to mention self-box is present and also c-v doesn't apply to non-atomic inlines

Author: I'm not sure what you mean. Could you suggest an edit?

Reviewer: See my other comment about this

## Accessibility

`hidden=until-found` subtrees will not be included in the accessibility tree

> because they internally use `contenet-visibility:hidden`.

Reviewer: I think we should be careful about stating that c-v is the reason for why they are not in the a11y tree. I think they aren't in the a11y tree because we don't want this content to be exposed to a11y since it goes against what the site author desires. The fact that we implement it using c-v hidden is tangential.

(also you have a typo in content-visibility)

Author: Ok, I merged it with some of the previous text. What do you think?

Reviewer: That reads much better, thanks!

Websites are encouraged to provide a way to reveal `hidden=until-found` content
without the use of find-in-page, ScrollToTextFragment, or element fragment

> navigation in order to ensure that all users can access the hidden content, like

Reviewer: ```suggestion
navigation in order to ensure that all users can access the hidden content using a method other than find-in-page, such as
```

while letting it be searchable by find-in-page. When a match is found, the
browser automatically expands the section by removing the `hidden` attribute.

Note that the net effect of this is that the user is able to find matches in
collapsed sections which are automatically expanded.

The same effect occurs when scroll-to-text navigation targets text in a hidden
section. For instance, navigating to `example.com/page.html#:~:text=lorem` would
make the browser expand the introduction section as a result of the
scroll-to-text fragment navigation match.

One possible real-world application of this is the collapsed sections on mobile
wikipedia pages. find-in-page and scroll-to-text currently can't find text
inside of the collapsed sections, but with `hidden=until-found` they could be
searchable and automatically expanded.

Using this feature is a good optimization for low power mobile devices that
don't want to render all of the content in the page but still making it
accessible to features such as find-in-page. Making long articles with collapsed
sections accessible to find-in-page will improve the user experience.

## Comparison to the `<details>` element

> The [auto-expanding `<details>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`<details>`
```

> element](https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/6466) works very similarly to this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
element](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/#interaction-with-details) works very similarly to this
```

feature. This feature empowers developers to build their own auto-expandable
details elements and more by exposing the primitive features used to make the

> auto-expandable `<details>` element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`<details>` element be searchable.
```

keystrokes and scrolling. This prevents the page from incrementally building the
user's search query one character at a time. If a snooping page has to build the
user's search query at something like 5 characters at a time, the page would
need to include so many potential results that it would become very hard or
impossible to recreate the user's search query.

As for the ScrollToTextFragment case, the browser firing the `beforematch` event
and removing the `hidden` attribute on the target text does not reveal more
information than is already revealed by the exising scrolling and `:target`
pseudo selector that ScrollToTextFragment applies.

## Responses to DOM and style changes in the `beforematch` event handler

If the `beforematch` event handler
[collapses](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#range-collapsed) the DOM range of the
target text or changes the style to remove the target text from rendering, the
browser will not scroll to the target text.

## Usage of `content-visibility`

`hidden=until-found` will be implemented as a presentational style of
`content-visibility:hidden` as opposed to the existing `hidden` attribute which

> applies a presentational style of `display:none`. This will improve the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
applies a presentational style of `display:none`. This improves the
```

performance of searching the content inside the `hidden=until-found` subtree

> because searching for text in these areas requires computing style and layout.
> `content-visibility` saves this computed style and layout instead of
> `display:none` which deletes them, which means that once the first run of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
because `content-visibility: hidden`, unlike `display: none`, allows the rendering state
needed to perform a text search to be cached.
This means that once the first run of
```

> find-in-page or ScrollToTextFragment will compute these values, and subsequent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
find-in-page or ScrollToTextFragment computes these values, the subsequent
```

> runs can reuse the saved style and layout.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
runs can reuse the cached rendering state.
```

to add WPT tests for beforematch, since we cant have WPTs for find-in-page.
However, that would also require speccing `window.find`.

## Backwards compatability with the `hidden` attribute

If a browser which doesn't implement this feature renders a `hidden=until-found`
element, it will still apply the `display:none` style from the `hidden`
attribute, which will still make the element hidden like the
`content-visiblity:hidden` style that `hidden=until-found` is supposed to apply.
This means that websites won't need to specially consider support for this
feature between browsers, it just means that find-in-page and

> ScrollToTextFragment won't work as nicely in the browsers which don't support

Reviewer: This isn't true.

```
<style>
.hidden {
  width: 100px;
  height: 100px;
}
</style>
<div hidden=until-found class=hidden></div>
<!-- some other content -->
```

In this case, the box would take up 100x100 space since we're using content-visibility: hidden. We're hiding the content, not the element itself. With display: none, this would occupy 0 space

Author: I see...
Should I just change the phrasing to suggest that `hidden=until-found` looks like `hidden` in most but not all cases...?

Reviewer: I think it's a big enough distinction that it warrants a separate section. One of the biggest difference between something like `display: none` and `content-visibility: hidden` is its treatment of the element itself that is affected by the property. In `display: none` case, the element itself doesn't have a box so it isn't visible or styled or painted. In `content-visibility: hidden` case, the element itself is painted and drawn. You can check by adding a border on a `content-visibility: hidden` element -- the border is painted and drawn, even though the _contents_ of the element are not.

I feel like this distinction is important enough to point it out separately so that people reading this explainer are very well aware of it.

When it comes to updating this wording, then you can point to that section and say "`hidden` and `hidden=until-found` both hide the content. There, can, however be some visual differences. Link to the section"

Author: I updated this section and added the `visibility` mitigation we discussed last week. How does it look now?

to add WPT tests for beforematch, since we cant have WPTs for find-in-page.
However, that would also require speccing `window.find`.

## Backwards compatibility with the `hidden` attribute

> If a browser which doesn't implement this feature renders a `hidden=until-found`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a browser which doesn't implement this feature processes a `hidden=until-found`
```

> element, it will still apply the `display:none` style from the `hidden`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
attribute, it will still apply the `display:none` style from the `hidden`
```

> attribute, which will still make the element hidden like the
> `content-visiblity:hidden` style that `hidden=until-found` is supposed to apply.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
attribute, which will still make the element hidden.
```

> This means that hopefully websites won't need to specially consider support for
> this feature between browsers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This provides desired behavior on browsers that do not support `hidden=until-found`.
```

> However, `content-visibility:hidden` will still allow some parts of the

Reviewer: I'm not sure what "however" refers to here, this seems to be a separate topic from the previous paragraph

Author: I rewrote this section to be more clear, how does it look now?

`hidden=until-found` element to be rendered: the [generated
box](https://drafts.csswg.org/css2/#visibility) of the element.

> As a mitigation for this, the following CSS should be included in the user agent

Reviewer: "To allow compatibility with hidden attribute, and to make adoption straight forward, the user-agent stylesheet must also include the following:"

I know this isn't a spec, but as a general comment in spec languages "should" typically means an optional thing which user-agents may omit (csswg tends to follow this: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2119, not sure about whatwg/html)

Author: done

stylesheet:
```css
[hidden=until-found] {
  visibility: hidden;
}
[hidden=until-found] > * {

>   visibility: visible;

Reviewer: I forgot what if we said that things like
```html
<div style="visibility: hidden">
  <div hidden=until-found>text</div>
</div>
```
would be searchable with this style

Author: ill discuss this some more in the design doc
